some predictions which is harder to
evaluate.
And then you might think of doing some
sort of prescription. Okay,
I.
now that I know what happens in every,
let's say, timeline of the future,
I can choose what's the best course of
fraction, right?
And.
So if you were, let's say,
to predict payments, okay?
what sort of features we would use, right?
I mean,
in the broader sense of the term features,
right? So...
First thing is account person,
meaning more contract level stuff that's
roughly static. So for example, age,
the type of contract segment,
the original credit score, right,
the original balance,
all sort of kind of that's mostly
unchanging features that are assigned to
the person or to the contract.
Wright.
Personal,
I mean the personal or the account.
And then we have the more time
series-like features, for example,
cash flow,
the expected inflow of payments,
contract-wise, right,
the actual inflow of payments,
skip payments, and stuff like that.
Then we have the very rich part of events
and activities, right.
contacts, legal thresholds, repossessions,
outboard calls,
all sorts of events that happens during
the contract.
Right, right,
and now that we recently discovered,
I added here a network features, right,
which regards to escalation,
we saw that escalation has a very good
predictor for problems, essentially,
but only for 10% of the delinquencies,
right? It's not a...
That doesn't cover all the,
but for 10% of the is a very good
prediction predictor of problems, right?
So, essentially, this encode behavior,
right? So,
but it requires some sort of history from
the account.
And then we have more generic features,
like, for example, calendar features,
which is very important for this type of
problem, which month, day of the month,
year, weekday, right, and stuff like that.
We have those in, I believe,
in max TQ days and the other.
prediction models. And then,
which something we could think about
incorporate later, is external features.
So economy indicators, industry segments,
and stuff like that.
I don't think that's important right now,
but we could incorporate those at some
point, right? So if you want to do,
let's say,
a perfect prediction of payments,
these would be, let's say, the
features we would use at the most
extensive level, right?
But essentially,
if you were not on the payments, but...
Almost any type of predictions that we
will do, max to two days, purpose to pay,
or payments,
or when the account will occur, or...
the duration of the delinquency, right?
Almost any thing we try to predict,
we would use the same set of features.
And Andre, actually,
when we first scheduled this meeting,
I thought this is going to be the main
event for the discussion,
but I see how you kind of layered to get
here, right? So this is around.
like the standardization and reusability
of these features, right?
Yeah, that's essentially the bottom line.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah,
so we took and just as the rationale.
Something to keep in mind too,
when you can talk about the external
But...
component,
we have a partnership with TransUnion now,
and I'm sure that there's something to
explore there, not right now,
because I don't even think we've really
scratched the surface of what we can do
with the data that we have,
because we have so much already.
Yes.
But when you add in those additional data
points that we're able to get through
Yes.
different, you know,
scores and capabilities that they have,
I think that it just,
it really just broadens it even more.
And those insights can be even more
precise because you have the ability to
see what else is going on outside of the..
.
you know,
the stuff that we do have with that
particular customer.
Exactly, yeah, exactly, and.
But just something to keep in mind when
you talk about the external component,
I think there's a lot there. Yeah.
Cool, good to know. Yeah,
and and that's roughly the point,
which is, for example, right now,
the data lake services purpose very well,
but from which is essentially it's
complete,
it's a backup has use of everything,
so essentially everything is there and
it's captured and instructed, right?
But from an analytics workflow standpoint,
for example, the type of work that I do,
Anushka, Filip, and even Mike,
it's not very practical. So for example,
Anushka is doing the channel engagement
stuff and she's measuring lift confidence
of specific activities, right,
channels to payments and other stuff,
right?
And something that is very similar to
what I did for the,
I was calling it the causality analysis,
which was just a few data sets that I
sent to you.
Mike, not sure if you remember,
but the math, the coding is very similar,
Yeah.
right? But we can essentially duplicate,
we did the same math twice, right?
And that also extends to Filip work,
a lot of things that we do repeatedly and.
..
To some extent, differently, right?
But essentially, they are the same thing,
and we, the bottom line,
and getting a bit of ahead of myself,
but the bottom line,
we we we direct after do those work
fronts, which is correct, which is fine,
but also we should have a...
directed effort to this shared assets
that everyone will benefit from,
which will be the feature store and other
stuff, but mainly the feature store,
right?
Because there are a lot of things that
are shared, right?
Essentially anything we try to,
if you talk just about prediction models,
almost anything that we try to predict.
Or diagnose or describe, we would,
so we would use the same sort of features,
right?
So this is going to go forward.
This makes sense.
Yep.
Cool.
Mhm.
So the bottom line is essentially any
model that you tries essentially use the
same features.
Uh...
So this is a bit of a cliche.
Everybody knows data is important.
But for a Kuva case,
I think it's not only just the cliche,
the rationale here that I tried to show
that ties directly to
ROI and not profit, right? So,
if you make that better prescription,
Thank you.
if you make better prescriptions,
it links to profits,
but to get better prescriptions,
you need better predictions to get better
predictions, you need data,
so that's a pretty straightforward link.
If it was, I don't know,
if it's a manufacturing business.
There's no such a direct link,
essentially explode down thousands of
components, but for a closed platform,
that's very direct.
And the feature sets is very, let's say,
cohesive, right?
So it's not all sorts of features.
Any model,
each model has its own feature set.
It has a core set of shared features.
And now the part that I haven't done much
slides for,
which is supposedly was the core of the
presentation,
which is essentially have some,
identify some issues.
First, regarding data quality,
I will get into details in a bit.
Other is heterogeneity,
which is a form of quality as well,
but I'm just highlighting this because
the idea here is variation of the meaning
Mhm.
of the data across clients.
And the meaning, I mean distribution,
right? So I think you show yourself,
for example, the original credit score,
depending on the type of system the
client uses,
it's filled differently for each client,
right? So.
Yeah,
are you saying that the heterogeneous?
Genieity.
Variation.
From the data we're receiving,
so like not all clients are providing the
same data,
or are you saying even when they're
providing the data,
the data it has variation?
Or you say both.
Right, right, I both, right?
So the inter-client variation,
Okay.
let's say I'm attributing here,
everything else I'm calling data quality,
That's fair.
just to make sure that we have a
distinction,
but these two can be seen as data quality,
but some are related to how it's not like
the...
Client has a data client problem in the
exports is more like.
At some almost a semantic key layer over
the data, what mean what what it means,
for example, let's see if I can remember.
I don't understand.
Mm.
I don't remember that if.
Yeah, so indirect.
Yeah, yeah, I mean,
it would be an indirect loan for a car,
auto loan, yeah.
Just finding what's an indirect loan for
No, I remember.
Mac U and for Canvas would be a
completely different thing,
because the name is different than the
way you would do it is different.
Exactly.
Yeah, remember now, yeah, exactly. So,
and there's a lot of ways that I think
the exports will vary between the clients,
right?
And we haven't really made any deliberate
efforts into analyzing that.
We just stumbled upon this stuff.
Has we work worked on max T2 days or
causality or escalation, right?
And we got some glimpses of those issues,
right?
But I think we have enough evidence to
see say that there is an issue of
heterogeneity, right?
Meaning we would need to to the now that
the question would be.
Because they, they, I think they the key.
One of the key values Akuvo platform
could provide is to, for example,
Thank you.
use intelligent intelligence gathered
from one client, let's say Markovic,
which is huge, right?
Learn the patterns from Markovic and help
a smaller client with that Intel.
Right, not directly off put,
but by through the recommendations, right?
So,
I think that's one of the key aspects of
the platform is you have a vision of
everyone and you can provide a shared
intelligence, let's say, right?
But to do that,
you have to somehow normalize or...
normalize the data to make the learning
transferable, right?
Because in the other issue that the
iteration could provide its balance,
right? So for example,
if you have a model, for example,
that trains on all clients data, but...
I don't know, Mac Q is 8% of the data,
send to which point is Mac Q helping them
with Intel,
or to which point Mac Q is overshadowing
Right.
their particularities, right?
So that's why I wanted to highlight
heterogeneity.
not just put under the data quality
umbrella, right?
And data quality to get some specific
examples, for example.
I Filip some while ago identified some
discontinuities in the DQ. So for example,
the DQ would start and then suddenly stop,
end,
and then another delinquency would start
the next day with the max DQ days at the
top. So essentially it was just,
we're not sure, right? The.
There's just a discontinuity in the
delinquency. That's just an example,
but for example,
we have a lot of missing values in
columns.
We have a lot of when you cross the
balance between the payments table and
the accounts table and you try to see if
the starting balance and the end balance
matches.
They do match most of the times,
but more than I'd say,
I don't remember the exact number of
Manal,
but I think it's 20% doesn't match and
it's not by a small margin,
they simply doesn't match, right?
So there are a lot of those that are not
about.
Variations between the clients is about
the quality itself, OK?
And lastly,
which something that will come up more
naturally,
we don't think we need to put much
deliberate effort into, but to be aware,
it's essentially analytical workflows.
Like I said, for example, right now,
the data lake is not the most.
practical way to conduct a recent start a
new prediction model, right?
We could have some intermediary assets,
feature store,
and tool sets to make the worksflow
faster, right?
I think I mentioned to you guys some time
ago that.
When you do analysis for one client, okay,
we can do it,
we can use synapse or locally,
but when you ask it, okay,
can you do that for all clients?
That's we feel a bit of pain inside
because it is painful too. Right now,
the way things are to incorporate our
clients, okay, for one client, it's good,
but...
trying to incorporate our clients.
It's not,
which should be something trivial, right?
Not necessarily now, but at some point.
Okay, so regarding data quality,
I have some evidence we can go over then
a few of them now or at some moments,
or you can just take my word for it.
So one is LHBM grid search,
which in short,
And.
Intech.
this was back in when I was working on
max execute days.
Thank you, John.
which essentially I made a grid search,
but basically mean you train hundreds of
models,
each with its own set of hyperparameters
and small changes in the way you train
the model, right? So I essentially,
I remember I
I'm not sure if it was 200 or 300 models
essentialized, trying to find, okay,
what's the best way to tune this model to
get the best, the best in my,
not sure if you guys remember the my
metric of the max DQ days.
And of all the hyperparameters that I
made changes to,
none of them produced any measurable
effect in the.
Quality of the model,
the only one that produced a measurable
effect on the quality of the model was
data quality, right?
Meaning I filtered out a bit of
nonsensical data from the training sets.
Mm.
which end up being 30% of the data set,
but the, yeah,
but the model improved dramatically,
right, by taking out those weird data set,
Wow.
data examples, right?
And I tried a lot of things,
not on data quality,
and none of them really make the needle
move.
The only thing that made the needle move
was removing.
Bad examples.
Right, so we have all sorts of, let's say,
casual evidence of those things.
We could go over them.
And then the bottom line would be the
recommendations, right?
One of them is the feature store,
which I think would, before that,
we could entail some target analysis on
the client.
data quality and the duration itself to
inform a bit about what you can do about
it regarding the feature store and also
to maybe measure a bit.
Right now everything is a bit qualitative,
right? It's sparse evidence,
but try to measure a bit how it looks.
Okay, so the feature store,
which we can go into details if you want,
and this is a byproduct shared analytics
toolkit, I'm calling it,
but essentially this shared layer shared
layer of assets that me, Anushka, Filip,
and Mike could use to make our lives
easier.
And then, which is a bit more audacious,
but it's something that I've worked on in
the past,
which is a data quality control system
that we essentially would plug in after
the data lake to control data quality.
So the bottom,
the idea is we wouldn't change the data,
we would just
flag it extensively so the downstream
pipelines could choose whether,
for example,
use the full data set or use just the
good examples, right?
So we would not change the data,
we would just heavily flag it all the
issues found on each entity.
and then the downstream pipelines or the
downstream models can choose which
segments to work with.
So that's a very brief.
So, Andre, can you,
when you talk about the data quality and
you know up to 30% is where you saw some
data anomalies, what?
And I know we're over on time,
so maybe we just take another 5 minutes
to sort of figure out like what that is
and then next steps.
Mhm.
But why is there so much,
like what are you seeing when you're
filtering out bad data?
Yeah,
I'm gonna go over quick that I had some
slides, but I didn't show back in January.
OK.
So this is essentially that experiment.
So grid search, 200 models.
So this is the stuff that I tried out in
the grid search. I mean,
this is stuff that I tried changing to
see if there is any effect on the model.
Now this is a bit technical, L1, L2,
leave, select, history, and data quality,
filters, okay? So that.
gave it 200 plus models.
Um...
But what I guess when when you're saying
data quality filter,
what are you filtering out? Nulls like.
Yeah, let's get that first. Yeah.
So this is a very rudimentary filter,
okay, that I did,
but I wasn't like trying to solve the
whole data quality issue.
I was just trying to test if there is an
impact. Okay. So, so for example,
now this is a...
Technical, I will try to explain, so...
So, like I said,
you have balance in the accounts table,
and we have,
and we can infer balance from the
payments table, two different tables,
right? So,
do they match in terms of initial balance,
right? So,
that's one of the scores I'm calling the
initial balance score. Same,
we have the last balance score,
and the score is percentage,
so there is a essentially I make a
percentage transform it the difference to
a percentage.
So, it's between zero and 100.
So 100 means, okay, perfect match,
all good.
And then we have last balance scores,
the same thing,
I try to relate the information on the
accounts table and the payments table
versus the final balance, right?
They see if they match. DQ days,
so they're a bit technical,
I will skip over a bit, but for example,
there's another set of rules here,
for example, initial DQ days.
Greater than one, right? So it doesn't,
at least for me at the time,
doesn't didn't make much sense for the DQ
episode to start the DQ days then, right?
I think you speak up.
Like the initial balance in the account
and the initial balance in the payment,
the start of the DQ.
It's just about the issues.
Doesn't make sense. Yeah. Okay. Sorry,
keep going today.
I'm just trying to figure out why they
Yeah, so, yeah.
might be off like that.
Because 30% is a pretty big chunk of.
Yeah,
I'll get I'll get I'll get the specific
number,
but just to show you a bit of the rules.
Yeah, yeah.
So,
this is a bit at that time was done
didn't make sense for me. OK,
so initial the queue the queue day is
greater than one or initial the queue day
is greater than the queue duration.
Wright.
max DQ days of the duration 0, right?
Yeah.
So pretty basic stuff. So,
and I essentially,
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
all of those were a zero to 100 square,
100 meaning okay, that's fine.
8% mean the weight percent okay, okay.
And I didn't feel too lucky.
If you have any issue, you're out.
That was not the future. Yeah,
I did accept some.
issues, okay. I believe it was 8%,
meaning 8% quality, okay.
Okay.
Let's get to how many I sorted it out.
So, here, for example, for Machu,
I have 3 million delicacy episodes, OK?
Now,
2 million of them had at least three
previous delinquencies later,
so Filip actually was supposed to be two,
but okay, but here is is 3,
meaning I was a bit more strict in what I
scored, right? So, essentially,
the starting set is 2 million.
Right, and after the quality filtering,
I get 20 minutes.
It's actually more than a third, right?
It's roughly 50% of the, let's say,
40% of the data got filtered out.
What the?
And let's see.
Yeah, that's.
And the the the average score was
eighty-five percent,
so it I I did two experiments either the
average, if you remember here,
No.
I have several scores for of locality.
I tried two reports: one is no no
filtering, the other is OK,
the average of all scores should be above
eighty-five percent.
And the order was all of the scores
should be above at least eighty-five
percent, right?
Mhm.
Uh...
Okay, so,
but if for this particular example is the
average case, 85% average.
OK, and...
See if Eler can remember this.
Okay, yeah, this is the good part.
So if you look here,
essentially you remember the my,
my was like the single match that we were
trying to optimize.
So the lower the better,
it's an error measure, right?
So here are all the hyperparameter I
tried, L2, L1, blah, blah, blah.
And each bar here is dozens of models.
It's some average of dozens of models.
Okay, it's not just one model,
it's not just a...
a fluke, a coincidence,
so it's an average.
So you see it's pretty stable across all
variations.
So here I'm changing L1 to 0 to 0.1 to 1.
And it's not making any effect on model
Mhm.
quality, minimal history of how many
Previous delinquency it must have, so one,
two, no effect, number of Lego,
meaning how much farther.
back I look to get features, right?
No effect, number of flips, be technical,
and then data quality, right?
So if you apply no filtering,
I get an average mile of 23,
meaning I lead train where everything.
If I apply the average filtering,
meaning you have to have an average score
of 85% of data quality.
Quality, right?
You see the my reduces considerably,
right? Meaning it's improved,
but if I filter too much, right,
Mm.
because that the other was score,
the other was okay,
Yeah, I need.
all of your score must be above 82%,
so I'm filtering too much,
so meaning I have less data.
which means poor training results.
So it's kind of expected.
You can't be too drastic of quality
because then you will,
Thank you.
the trade-offs less examples, right?
Right, yeah,
I guess finding that sweet spot is the...
Yeah.
That's the goal, yeah.
And I think.
I think that's it.
I'm just trying to remember what's this
graph here, but...
So,
what from the standpoint of like actions
or how do we take this information and
and what do we want?
What are you what are you proposing like
as a go forward?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, just to finish,
I think that's the fun part you just
mentioned.
Mhm.
So, here I am, essentially,
then I'd made another experiment,
another research,
but I kept all the hyperparameters here
that didn't make a dent, right?
These guys,
I fix them and I just vary data quality,
so instead of 85% and 5%,
I just use average, but from 5 to 10, 10,
so all the steps of 5%, right?
Mhm.
So, a key data quality threshold,
so you can we can kind of see this,
not a parallel, but a convex,
so there is a sweet spot here of data
Great.
quality between, I don't know, 40 and 20,
where the mine is the minimum, right?
Mhm.
And I'm not sure if that's average,
but I believe it's average, right?
But we essentially can figure out for
that particular way of computing data
quality in a single metric, right?
We can kind of see, okay,
here we are being too lenient and here
being too strict.
Wright.
And that is a sweet spot.
It's a big range,
Right.
so we don't have to worry too much about
getting the perfect quality measure,
right?
That's a big range here of good values.
Yeah.
Cool, now to the end.
Sentence.
To the...
actual, actionable stuff.
So first thing is, like I said,
conduct an analysis on everything that we
do, we showed essentially byproduct,
right?
We are trying to solve max TQ days or
trying to solve escalation or channel and
we see that stuff.
around,
but I think some directed effort towards
measuring and assessing data quality and
client head heterogeneity would be a,
let's say, a first step,
just so we can inform better the next
Yeah.
steps, okay,
and get a sense of how good or bad things
are.
Right, I could start that and do that,
no problem.
And then the next step,
which is something I believe Federico can
help a lot, which is the feature store,
which is that shared layer of data that
me, Anushka, Filip,
and everyone uses a lot, right? So,
and is repeated,
and so it makes our life going forward
much more.
Productive, right?
I have some diagrams on the feature,
so if you want,
we can go over it now or we can do
another meeting for it.
And the shadow analytics toolkit,
I also have some diagrams,
I think.
but that's a bit of too detail for now.
And the data quality control system,
I also have a diagram for it.
We can go over them now or
Another time, your call.
Yeah, I think for me, the first two,
the data quality and then the feature
store,
I'd like to do a bit more of a deep dive
into that. I think on the day, you know,
and...
And Federico,
I'm not sure if if you sort of waited on
this, maybe you worked with Andre on this,
but like those to me are probably the
biggest next step is right,
the data quality for sure,
Yeah, yeah.
and then you know,
as we're building out other models,
or even if the platform.
could leverage the feature store,
like defining those, repeating those,
putting them out into a certain area
where we start to have an inventory and
they could be used for other models or
other.
Other features I think would be would be
really wise,
so would love to come back to maybe have
another session on today,
maybe if you wouldn't mind throwing like
another 30 minutes out there and let's do
Yep.
Sir.
a deeper dive into those two. Federico,
do you have a question or thoughts on
No.
this?
Yeah, just a curiosity.
I was wondering where the name Feature
Store comes from.
I think that was like something we had
chatted about, like,
like an inventory of features so that we
could use them for future state models,
because they were like having to develop
new features every,
even if they were the same ones for like
name and demographics and all that.
So when you say features,
you mean like data features or in general?
In the most general sense of the word
feature, right?
So it's not like input of the models type
of feature is more general,
more general sense.
All right.
Just a quick question on that.
Bottom line, I think it's a cool name.
That's the reason.
And.
Ha ha ha!
I was wondering,
mainly because in the data spaces,
Yeah.
there is a concept that's called the
semantic layer,
and I was trying to understand if if it's
if we're talking about the same thing or
Yes.
if you intend something different.
No, yeah, I mean, I'm not,
you're essentially free to define how to
act that. Just to a bit of context,
me and Federico haven't fully synced on
that yet, so these names are a bit,
let's say, amateurish,
Yeah.
but the ideas for later week,
how that fits into conventional.
data architecture,
technology and conventions, right?
But right now, it's just a cool name,
Federico.
Just a question on that though.
If you develop those features,
some of that filtering that you had to do
to parse that data where you think that
there might be a quality issue to improve
that.
score. Are you able to save that,
if you will, for each customer?
Or do you think that that's going to be a
limitation that you have to like dig in
each time to determine what those what
those issues might be per customer?
So, the let me quickly show the diagram,
just I want to full explain just to
quickly give an idea, where is it?
Because I think trying to figure out some
of those issues, you know,
it's obviously time consuming.
I know Anushka ran into that with the
engagement component.
I'm just wondering if there's a benefit
to doing that.
You know,
or if it's still if that issue is still
going to be there after you have those
features.
Right,
so the idea of the feature store is not
to be a bottleneck for anyone,
meaning we can't have me or Filip or
Yeah.
Anushka or anyone bottlenecking on these
shared assets, right? Okay,
we need to that date on the feature store
or else we can't work.
So bottom line is we can either hopefully
get all the data from the feature store,
but if not,
we go directly to the data lake, right?
Right, and essentially,
we would have a staging area which is
essentially just the integration for our
clients. Right now,
it's each client's in a container which
is kind of painful to integrate,
so essentially just integrate them some
basic stuff, so we, in our way,
this will be a, let's say,
a condensed version of the data lake.
And then you have the core rated zone.
And from the stage to the core,
it's where the data quality kicks in.
And the idea is not to remove data,
it's just to mark them, right? Okay,
that is this kind of data quality issues
Mm.
for this, let's say,
delinquency of this account or for this
client. So just flag the entities,
the issues of the entities.
And then when you get the applications
and they can choose, okay,
I want to use just data which clients,
I want to use just perfect delinquencies
and you know, yeah,
essentially we want the quality system
wants.
In theory, in principle,
once excluding the data,
we just flag them, right,
and then the downstream can choose what
to do with it.
Makes sense?
Did that answer your question?
Yep.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Any other?
Questions?
No comments.
Yeah, let me, if you wouldn't mind, Andre,
set us up for another half hour with this
group to talk through.
I'd like to deep dive on the data quality,
like what are our next steps,
what do we think the next steps are on
that, and then the feature store.
Yes.
Cool, cool.
And then,
once we lock down the name of Feature
Store, Federico can get T-shirts made.
You sound like you'd love that name right
Yeah.
now.
Filip might have a better name,
I don't know.
No,
it was more to it was more to understand
the semantically what you meant.
And.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
No, I just.
We had been talking about features for a
while and I think that was just sort of,
I had asked it,
I guess back when you first joined Andre,
like, should we have an inventory?
Should we do, you know, and I know,
you know,
people talked about like an API store,
API economy, I don't know,
some similar version of that.
Is I think how the...
Our marketing came to be on that name.
Yeah.
Okay, but if you wouldn't mind,
set us up and then I think we,
I think those are the first two
priorities.
Let's see if we can set up some work on
those two and get it moving.
Sure, are we?
I'm still scratching my head about that
data quality. That's such big. Like,
I know your point,
like there's a sweet spot there between,
you know, 5 and...
What was 40%?
And, and, and it was a, I,
I didn't show actually that the actual
effect, let's see if we can.
But just to give a numeric sense.
I'll send afterwards,
but because I showed like they visually
Okay.
had the difference,
but they didn't give the numbers.
The.
I'll send the numbers afterwards.
But yeah,
do you want me to schedule the next one
Okay.
or do you send the invites?
You know, I'll send the invite. Are you?
I'll see if I can find...
some of your calendars,
but let me send out an invite and if you
guys can't make it or there's an issue,
just send me a proposal for a different
time.
Cool, cool. I'll wait for it then.
OK, alright.
Justin, yeah, Justin withdraw. I mean,
he's the one with the busiest schedule so
far, so yeah.
Yeah.
Okay. All right. And I have his,
I think I have his availability. So,
Okay, cool.
all right. I appreciate the extra time.
Thanks guys. Thank you. All right. Bye.
The.
Thank you, team. Bye-bye.
I'll see you.
Bye.